# Control for Plasma Gasification
## What is Plasma Gasification?
Plasma arc gasification (PAG), waste-treatment technology that uses a combination of electricity and high temperatures to turn municipal waste (garbage or trash) into usable by-products without combustion (burning). Although the technology is sometimes confused with incinerating or burning trash, plasma gasification does not combust the waste as incinerators do. Instead, it converts the organic waste into a gas that still contains all its chemical and heat energy and converts the inorganic waste into an inert vitrified glass called slag. The process can reduce the volume of waste sent to landfills and generate electricity.
## What did we do?
In this project, we are simulating an apparatus capable of Plasma Gasification, and we making a GUI that has the capability of controlling the gases to keep the temperature of the setup in check. It maintains the flow of gases so that its never deviating from the ideal conditions, while being flexible enough to modify the conditions, within reason.
## How does it work?
We first provide it with the type of waste that we are going to incinerate. The program will give us the ideal temperature that would be needed for this waste to be converted into slag with most efficiency. We can change the temperature given to us by the program how much ever we want, by modifying the flow of gases and changing the electrode to suit our needs.
## What was our objective?
Our motivation for this project was simply spreading awareness of the process of plasma gasification and just how flexible and efficient it can be, compared to landfills and burning of waste that is so common in India. This lines up with our objective, which is not only to become better at coding, but also becoming competent enough to learn to help our nation progress in the later years.
